User profile and useUserOrders docs (#5453)
vuestorefront/vue-storefront: packages/core/docs/guide/user-profile.md

# User profile

<!-- TODO: Add links to 'Composition API' and 'Composables' pages when they are ready -->

> This page assumes you're familiar with Composition API and Composables. Read them first if you are new to these concepts.

[[toc]]

## Checking if the user is logged in

> Many interactions in the application are only available or are different if the customer is logged in. To check that, we will use [useUser](../composables/use-user.md), which is one of, if not the most, widely used composable in Vue Storefront.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many interactions in the application are only available or look different if the customer is logged in. To check that, we will use [useUser](../composables/use-user.md), which is one of (if not the most) widely used composable in Vue Storefront.
```

> As with all composables, it's important to remember to call `load` before accessing any other property or function of `useUser`. Otherwise, `isAuthenticated` will always return `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like with all other composables, it's important to remember to call `load` before accessing any other property or function of `useUser`. Otherwise, `isAuthenticated` will always return `false`.
```

```js{8,18}
import { useUser } from '{INTEGRATION}';
import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';

export default {
  setup () {
    const {
      load,
      isAuthenticated
    } = useUser();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      load,
      isAuthenticated
    }
  }
}
```

## Loading current user

> When you confirmed that the user is logged in, you may safely access its data.

Reviewer: **suggestion**: we can either replace `its` with `their` or simply repeat `user`

```suggestion
When you confirmed that the user is logged in, you may safely access user data.
```

> When you confirmed that the user is logged in, you may safely access user data.

Author: I improved this section, by providing two examples:
- one with **just** an example of accessing user data,
- the other, more complete, checking if the user is logged in and getters.

```js{8,18}

> import { useUser } from '{INTEGRATION}';

Author: I think it's worth keeping, so (as @NataliaTepluhina said) examples can be copy-pasted to the project, especially because in the next example `userGetters` is imported as well.

@NataliaTepluhina ?

> import { useUser } from '{INTEGRATION}';

Reviewer: I agree with @filipsobol here

import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';

export default {
  setup () {
    const {
      load,

>       user

Reviewer: **question**: what will be returned as `user` if `isAuthenticated` is `false`?

Author: `null`

    } = useUser();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      load,
      user
    }
  }
}
```

> As with all composables, it's important to remember to not directly access `user` properties, but use `userGetters`. This will ensure that your code is integration-agnostic and proof to (some) future changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to other composables, it's important to remember to not directly access `user` properties, but use `userGetters`. This will ensure that your code is integration-agnostic and proof to (some) future changes.
```

> Similar to other composables, it's important to remember to not directly access `user` properties, but use `userGetters`. This will ensure that your code is integration-agnostic and proof to (some) future changes.

Reviewer 2: **question** will we need this here if it will be a part of the composables introduction doc?

Author: I improved this section, by providing two examples:
- one with **just** an example of accessing user data,
- the other, more complete, checking if the user is logged in and getters.

```js{1,3,17,22}
import { useUser, userGetters } from '{INTEGRATION}';
import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';
import { computed } from '@vue/composition-api';

export default {
  setup () {
    const {
      load,
      user
    } = useUser();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    const firstName = computed(() => userGetters.getFirstName(user.value));

    return {
      load,
      user,
      firstName
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Modifying user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Modifying user credentials
```

Updating user data (except for the current password, which is described in the [Changing password](#changing-password) section) can be done using `updateUser` method in `useUser` composable.

```js
import { useUser } from '{INTEGRATION}';

export default {
  setup () {
    const { updateUser } = useUser();

    const onSubmit = async (formData) => {
      try {
        await updateUser({ user: formData });
        // 'user' property is now updated
      } catch (error) {
        // handle update error
      }
    };

    return {
      onSubmit
    }
  }
}
```

## Changing password

Updating user password can be done using `changePassword` method in `useUser` composable. It requires the current and new password, to confirm user identity.

```js
import { useUser } from '{INTEGRATION}';

export default {
  setup () {
    const { changePassword } = useUser();

    const onSubmit = async (formData) => {
      try {
        await changePassword({
          current: formData.currentPassword,
          new: formData.newPassword
        });
      } catch (error) {
        // handle update error
      }
    };

    return {
      onSubmit
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Managing addresses (billing and shipping)

Reviewer 2: The linked documents will not be a part of this docs as stated in ToC (they will be parts of API Reference). We're rewriting it to more human-readable version. Please include those explanations as well.

Author: Done

Managing billing and shipping addresses is done using dedicated [useUserBilling](../composables/use-user-billing.md) and [useUserShipping](../composables/use-user-shipping.md) composables.

For more information, please refer to their documentation.

## Listing user orders

Listing user orders is done using dedicated [useUserOrders](../composables/use-user-orders.md) composable.

For more information, please refer to its documentation.

## Customizing addresses and forms in the user profile

> In default theme, components used to display addresses and containing forms for updating user information are blank. This is due to the fact that each integration might use different data formats and properties.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph relevant for integration guide, not users guide therefore should be a part of integration guide. Please move it there

|----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-------------|
| components/UserBillingAddress.vue            | { address: Object }                 |             |
| components/UserShippingAddress.vue           | { address: Object }                 |             |
| components/MyAccount/BillingAddressForm.vue  | { address: Object, isNew: Boolean } | ✔           |
| components/MyAccount/ShippingAddressForm.vue | { address: Object, isNew: Boolean } | ✔           |
| components/MyAccount/PasswordResetForm.vue   |                                     | ✔           |
| components/MyAccount/ProfileUpdateForm.vue   |                                     | ✔           |

Components that emit events are forms. Event should be in the following format:

```js
emit('submit', {
  form: Object,
  onComplete: (data: any) => {},
  onError: (error: Error) => {}
})
```

When such event is sent, application will handle communication with the API. If request is succesful, `onComplete` callback will be called with response from the API. Otherwise `onError` will be called with error caught.

> ## Protecting user profile routes

Reviewer 2: Some parts are unrelevant for users and touch integrations guide as well here

      try {
        await updateUser({ user: formData });
        // 'user' property is now updated
      } catch (error) {
        // handle update error
      }
    };

    return {
      onSubmit
    }
  }
}
```

## Changing password

Updating user password can be done using `changePassword` method in `useUser` composable. It requires the current and new password, to confirm user identity.

```js
import { useUser } from '{INTEGRATION}';

export default {
  setup () {
    const { changePassword } = useUser();

    const onSubmit = async (formData) => {
      try {
        await changePassword({
          current: formData.currentPassword,
          new: formData.newPassword
        });
      } catch (error) {
        // handle update error
      }
    };

    return {
      onSubmit
    }
  }
}
```

## Managing addresses (billing and shipping)

Managing billing and shipping addresses is done using [useUserBilling](../composables/use-user-billing.md) and [useUserShipping](../composables/use-user-shipping.md) composables.

Both have almost identical signature (properties, methods and getters), so examples below will only show usage of `useUserBilling`.

> ### Getting a list of addresses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Displaying a list of addresses
```

just for consistency to have it same way everywhere, wdyt? @filipsobol

To get a list of addresses, use `load` and `billing` or `shipping` properties and `getAddresses` method on corresponding getter.

```vue
<template>
  ...
    <div
      v-if="address in userBillingGetters.getAddresses(billing)"
      :key="userBillingGetters.getId(address)"
    >
      {{ userBillingGetters.getPostCode(address) }}
    </div>
  ...
</template>

<script>
import { useUserBilling, userBillingGetters } from '{INTEGRATION}';
import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';

export default {
  setup () {
    const {
      billing,
      load,
    } = useUserBilling();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      billing,
      userBillingGetters
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

> ### Managing addresses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Adding, updating, and deleting addresses
```

`useUserBilling` and `useUserShipping` composables expose number of methods to manage addresses:

* `addAddress`
* `deleteAddress`
* `updateAddress`
* `setDefault`

Below is the example of using `deleteAddress` method.

```vue{7-9,23,32}
<template>
  ...
    <div
      v-if="address in userBillingGetters.getAddresses(billing)"
      :key="userBillingGetters.getId(address)"
    >
      <button @click="deleteAddress({ address })">
        Delete address
      </button>
    </div>
  ...
</template>

<script>
import { useUserBilling, userBillingGetters } from '{INTEGRATION}';
import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';

export default {
  setup () {
    const {
      billing,
      load,
      deleteAddress,
    } = useUserBilling();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      billing,
      deleteAddress,
      userBillingGetters
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

For more information, please refer to documentation for [useUserBilling](../composables/use-user-billing.md) and [useUserShipping](../composables/use-user-shipping.md) composables.

> ## Listing user orders

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Displaying user orders
```
